Now for accessing http, the first important thing to realize is you saw it throughout the course, vuejs is
normal javascript code, you can mix it or you can embed in your normal javascript code flow
and that allows you to use any of your favorite ajax libraries.
So if you want to use jQuery's ajax function, do it,
if you get some other jQuery, excuse me, some other Ajax library which allows you to send http request in the
way you want to send them, do it,
use it like that and you are fine to use it in your vuejs code too.
Now I will show you a special package written for vuejs which makes making http requests very easy
which closely embeds into your vue instance and gives you some other nice features,
it's called vue resource and we'll have a look at it in this video.
The package I'll be using, vue resource can be found by googling, simply google for vue resource and
you should find this official github repository, there you will also find installation, steps for different
set up,
so for example by simply using a CDN if you want to dump it into your index.html file or if you want
to install it with npm like we will do in our webpack project where we manage all our dependencies
and bundle everything with webpack and then you also see some examples and the documentation here, and
I can only recommend diving into that documentation, though of course I will guide you through the most
important parts here in this module but it's always nice to really understand what's going on and to
dive in deeper.
So as we're going to use,
let's start by installing it into our project.
Now I already have a brand new project set up,
it starts as all my projects started here in the last modules, it's empty,
the only thing I do have is some bootstrap classes in the app.vue file and hence I also do import
bootstrap here in the index.html file, that is all.
Now since I want to install vue resource here,
I'm not going to use the CDN but instead, I want to install it via npm and let webpack bundle this
then in the end,
so let the webpack handle this. To do so, I can simply type npm install and then if we have a look, vue resource
though I will also add save to make sure it's installed as a production dependency, vue resource like
this.
Now what this will do is pull it down and load it or store it into my node modules folder which is
hidden by my IDE but which does exist here too in this project,
and once it is installed, looks good no errors,
I have to add it or I have to configure it and add it to my stack here or through my application to be able
to use it.
Now this is done by using a new method on the global vue object,
I can use vue and then use, now use basically tells vuejs to add a plugin to the core
vuejs functionality,
so the core functionality is now extended
and the thing I want to use is vue resource. As a side note you can find these steps here too, if
you scroll down to configuration, there you will see that is how you should install it when using webpack
and there you see this vue use command.
You also see that we need to import it,
so let's quickly do that,
I'll add it here,
import vue resource from vue resource just like that
and then we pass this newly imported vue resource as an argument to vue use
and now it's enabled and we're able to access all the methods vue resource gives us directly on our
vue instance and I will show you in the next videos where we can then actually start setting up our little
test application here and send http requests.